Astro 5/5 release notes (#673)
astronomer/docs: astro/release-notes.md

**Latest CLI Version**: 1.5.0 ([Release notes](cli-release-notes.md))

## May 5, 2022

### Gain New Insights into Your Data Pipelines with Data Lineage

We are excited to introduce data lineage functionality to Astro. Using the new **Lineage** tab in the Cloud UI, you can now monitor your Deployments based on the real-time flow of data through your pipelines.

> Data lineage in Astro is a significant milestone towards comprehensive observability of your data. Using OpenLineage, Astro automatically traces data and visualizes it in a way that traditional metrics can't. Lineage graphs show information about not just about your Airflow tasks, but also the datasets they interact with and the external workloads they trigger.

Reviewer: We are excited to introduce data lineage to Astro. [Data lineage](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/data-lineage-concepts) is the concept of tracking and visualizing data from its origin to wherever it flows and is consumed downstream.

On Astro, you now have access to a **Lineage** view in the Cloud UI that visualizes data movement across datasets in your Organization based on Airflow tasks, Spark jobs, dbt jobs, and more. Built on the [OpenLineage](https://openlineage.io/) standard, the data lineage graphs and metadata now available in the Cloud UI can help you diagnose issues that may otherwise be difficult to identify across Deployments.

> We are excited to introduce data lineage functionality to Astro. Using the new **Lineage** tab in the Cloud UI, you can now monitor your Deployments based on the real-time flow of data through your pipelines.
> 
> Data lineage in Astro is a significant milestone towards comprehensive observability of your data. Using OpenLineage, Astro automatically traces data and visualizes it in a way that traditional metrics can't. Lineage graphs show information about not just about your Airflow tasks, but also the datasets they interact with and the external workloads they trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are excited to introduce data lineage to Astro. You now have access to a new **Lineage** view in the Cloud UI that visualizes data movement across datasets in your Organization based on integrations with Airflow, Apache Spark, dbt, Great Expectations, and more.

Built around the [OpenLineage](https://openlineage.io/) open source standard, the data lineage graphs and metadata in the Cloud UI can help you better understand your ecosystem and diagnose issues that may otherwise be difficult to identify.
```

> ![Lineage graph example](/img/release-notes/lineage-example.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Lineage graph example](/img/release-notes/lineage-example.png)

For example, if an Airflow task failed because the schema of a database changed, you might go to the Lineage page on Astro to determine which job caused that change and which downstream tasks failed because of it.
```

> Use the following new docs to help you get started with understanding, configuring, and using data lineage features in Astro:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about data lineage and how you can configure it on Astro, see:
```

- [Data Lineage Concepts](data-lineage-concepts.md)

> - [Set Up Data Lineage](set-up-data-lineage.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Enable Data Lineage for External Services](set-up-data-lineage.md)
```

> - [Set Up Data Lineage](set-up-data-lineage.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Enable Data Lineage for External Services](set-up-data-lineage.md)
```

> - [Data Lineage UI](data-lineage.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Data Lineage on Astro](data-lineage.md)
```

> - [Data Lineage UI](data-lineage.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Data Lineage on Astro](data-lineage.md)
```

- [Data Lineage Support and Compatibility](data-lineage-support-and-compatibility.md)

> 

Author: ```suggestion

This functionality is still early access and under active development. If you have any questions or feedback about this feature, reach out to [Astronomer Support](https://support.astronomer.io).

```

> ### Astro is Now Available on Google Cloud Platform

Author: ```suggestion
### Astro Is Now Available on Google Cloud Platform
```

> Astronomer now officially supports installations of Astro on Google Cloud Platform. For more information about the installation process and current support, see [Install Astro on GCP](install-gcp.md) and [Resource Reference GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro now officially supports Astro Clusters on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). This includes support for an initial set of GCP regions as well as [Workload Identity](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/manage-workload-identity-pools-providers) for secure connection to other GCP data services in your ecosystem.

For more information about the installation process and supported configurations, see [Install Astro on GCP](install-gcp.md) and [Resource Reference GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md).
```

> Astronomer now officially supports installations of Astro on Google Cloud Platform. For more information about the installation process and current support, see [Install Astro on GCP](install-gcp.md) and [Resource Reference GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro now officially supports Astro Clusters on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). This includes support for an initial set of GCP regions as well as [Workload Identity](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/manage-workload-identity-pools-providers) for secure connection to other GCP data services in your ecosystem.

For more information about the installation process and supported configurations, see [Install Astro on GCP](install-gcp.md) and [Resource Reference GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md).
```

### Additional Improvements

> - Improved error messaging behavior on the **DAGs** and **Usage** pages of the Cloud UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved the templated emails sent out for user invites with clear instructions on how to get started as well as visual updates for brand consistency
- Improved error messaging behavior on the **DAGs** and **Usage** pages of the Cloud UI
```

:::

### Support for Astro on Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

Astro now officially supports Astro Clusters on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). This includes support for an initial set of GCP regions as well as [Workload Identity](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/manage-workload-identity-pools-providers) for secure connection to other GCP data services in your ecosystem.

For more information about the installation process and supported configurations, see [Install Astro on GCP](install-gcp.md) and [Resource Reference GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md).

### Support for Organization-Level User Invites

You can now [invite users to an Astro Organization](add-user.md#add-a-user-to-an-organization) without having to first invite them to a specific Workspace. Users invited to an Organization will receive an activation email which brings them directly to the Organization view of the Cloud UI. 

### Additional Improvements

- Improved the templated emails sent out for user invites with clear instructions for how to get started on Astro
- Improved error messaging behavior on the **DAGs** and **Usage** pages of the Cloud UI

> 

Reviewer 2: We also enabled enforcement of Email Verification to address a security issue with account take overs.
